
AI Features
1. Chat (preset button prompts) (Session history)
2. Actions (let AI control the experiment)
3. Voice (text to speech) (COMING SOON)
4. Quiz (AI generated viva questions) (COMING SOON)

BUTTONS TO SUPPORT
1. 📸 What's this?
2. ❓ Explain the experiment.
3. 🎙️ Ask a question. (COMING SOON)


### Procedure

1. Place the clamp stand and pendulum on a table. Take care that the bob hangs vertically (about 2 cm above the floor) beyond the edge of the table so that it is free to oscillate.
2. Measure the effective length of the simple pendulum as shown in the figure.
3. Displace the bob not more than 15 degrees from the vertical position and then gently release it. Make sure that the bob oscillates in a vertical plane about its rest and does not (i) spin about its own axis (ii) move up and down while oscillating (iii)revolve in an elliptic path around its mean position.
4. Keep the pendulum oscillating for a few minutes. After a few oscillations, start the stopwatch as the thread attached to the bob crosses the mean position. Consider it as a zero oscillation.
5. Keep counting the oscillation 1,2,3…n every time the bob crosses the mean position. Stop the stopwatch at the count of n oscillations. For better results, n should be chosen such that the time taken to complete n oscillations is 50 s or more. Read the total time taken for n oscillations. Repeat the observation a few times by noting down the time for the same n number of oscillations. Once noted down, take the mean of the readings. Calculate the time for one oscillation, i.e., the time period T ( = t/n) of the pendulum.
6. Change the length of the pendulum, by about 10 cm. Repeat step 6 again for finding the time (t) for about 20 oscillations or more for the new length and find the mean time period. Take 5 or 6 more observations for different lengths of the pendulum and find the mean time period in each case.
7. Report observations in tabular form with proper units and significant figures.
8. Take effective length L along the x-axis and T2 (or T) along the y-axis, using the observed values from the table. Choose suitable scales on these axes to represent L and T2 (or T). Plot a graph between L and T2 as shown in figure 2 and also between L and T as shown in figure 1.